---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/galawain/"}
---

• **Aliases**: “The Seeker God,”“The Clever Hound,” “Lord of the Hunt,” “Father of Monsters, ”The Changeling”
• **Portfolio**: Pursuit, discovery, perseverance, the hunt, assassins, predatory beasts, wilderness 
• **Allies**: Unlike the other gods, Galawain seems to acknowledge Woedica’s authority, even if he does not openly follow her commands. He maintains an uneasy friendship with Magran, as both gods respect trials and adversity.
• **Foes**: None
• **Symbols**: A dog’s head, usually made of ivory or bone

Galawain is patron of the hunt in all its forms, and he is honored by those whose occupations are concerned with pursuit and discovery. His faithful include frontiersmen, constables, treasure seekers, explorers, and even scholars, many of whom wear his carved symbol—a dog’s head—around their wrist or neck. He is also protector of wild places and untamed wilderness, where the hunt manifests in its purest form as a daily struggle for survival.
Perseverance and cleverness are prized by Galawain above brute strength. He particularly  delights in turnabout—the transformation of prey into predator, or any sort of reversal where the weak gains an advantage over the strong.
Animals that assist mortals in the hunt (e.g., dogs, falcons) are particularly sacred to the Seeker God, and slaying or abusing them is thought to draw his ire. In stories, his punishment is often meted out by transformation into a prey species, with the offender left to the mercy of the very animals that he formerly abused.
In the mortal world, Galawain often mani- fests as a wolf or dog, though he may also appear as the Changeling, a broad-shouldered man with shaggy hair and beard, nut-brown skin, and some animal traits (e.g., pointed, hairy ears like an orlan’s and sharp canine teeth). As the Changeling, he is almost always accompanied by his pack­—a fearsome assortment of predatory beasts.
Legends suggest that Galawain once served as a divine enforcer, destroying those who defied the gods. Such stories seem to date from the vanished era when Woedica ruled the other gods, for it is often she who commands the Seeker to destroy a hapless individual . . . or in some cases, an entire mortal city. Though he has not served in this role for centuries, many believe that he would do so again if the need arose, and mortal assassins still consider him to be their divine patron.
For some Glanfathan clans, the Seeker God has a particularly important role. It is he who confers legitimacy upon their leadership ("anamfatha" and "anamenfatha" for males and females, respectively), who are expected to be cunning and effective leaders of the hunt. When an anamfath is dying, he is carried into the deep forest and left there, to be claimed by the Seeker God. If the Seeker deems an anamfath worthy, the Glanfathans believe that he will leave the corpse intact, carrying off the chief ’s soul to join his pack. If not, the Seeker’s hounds will tear apart the chief ’s body, and his soul will be forced to find its own way to the afterlife. In such cases, that chief ’s name is struck from the oral records of the clan, and he is quickly forgotten.
A similar tradition has arisen among devotees of Galawain from other cultures. Frontiersmen who have followed the Seeker for most of their lives, and who have proven themselves to be worthy hunters, will often wander into the woods when they feel death approaching, hoping that their souls will be accepted by their divine patron. Explorers have reported finding the desiccated corpses of woodsmen that have apparently lain in the wilderness for weeks or months yet remained untouched by animals, lending some credence to these beliefs.
Souls that are accepted by the Seeker are thought to join his pack of predatory beasts. Those who are particularly favored may be chosen as the first of a new species. In his role as Father of Monsters, the Seeker has continually fashioned new “races” of predatory creatures that dwell in the deep wilderness. These crea- tures are always clever hunters—each more dangerous than the last—and their characteristics are inspired by the mortal follower who is selected as the first of their kind.